Add some documentation for Ansible operator scaffolding (#3538)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/building-operators/ansible/reference/scaffolding.md

weight: 20
---

A new Ansible operator project can be created using a command that looks like
the following:

```
operator-sdk init --plugins ansible \
  --domain=my.domain \
  --group=apps --version=v1alpha1 --kind=AppService \
  --generate-playbook \
  --generate-role
```

The new project directory has many generated folders and files. The following
table describes a basic rundown of each generated file/directory.

| File/Folders   | Purpose |
| :---           | :---    |
| Dockerfile | The Dockerfile for building the container image for the operator. |
| Makefile | Contains make targets for building, publishing, deploying the
container image that wraps the operator binary, and make targets for
installing and uninstalling the CRD. |
| PROJECT | A YAML file containing meta information for the operator. |
| config/crd | The base CRD files and the kustomization settings. |
| config/default | Collects all operator manifests for deployment, used by `make deploy`. |

> manager for RBAC authorization against K8S API. | 

Reviewer: Crap, missed this line.
```suggestion
```

weight: 20
---

A new Ansible operator project can be created using a command that looks like
the following:

```
operator-sdk init --plugins ansible \
  --domain=my.domain \
  --group=apps --version=v1alpha1 --kind=AppService \
  --generate-playbook \
  --generate-role
```

The new project directory has many generated folders and files. The following
table describes a basic rundown of each generated file/directory.

| File/Folders   | Purpose |
| :---           | :---    |
| Dockerfile | The Dockerfile for building the container image for the operator. |
| Makefile | Contains make targets for building, publishing, deploying the
container image that wraps the operator binary, and make targets for
installing and uninstalling the CRD. |
| PROJECT | A YAML file containing meta information for the operator. |

> | config/crd | The base CRD file and the kustomization settings. |

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
| config/crd | The base CRD files and the kustomization settings. |
```

> | config/default | A sidecar container to be injected to the controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| config/default | Collects all operator manifests for deployment, used by `make deploy`. |
```

manager for RBAC authorization against K8S API. | 
| config/manager | The controller manager deployment. |
| config/prometheus | The ServiceMonitor resource for monitoring the
operator. |
| config/rbac | The role, role binding for leader election and authentication
proxy. |

> | config/sample | The sample resource created for the CRD. |

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
| config/samples | The sample resources created for the CRDs. |
```

| config/testing | Some sample configurations for testing. |

> | playbooks/ | A subdirectory for the playbook to run. |

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
| playbooks/ | A subdirectory for the playbooks to run. |
```

| roles/ | A subdirectory for the roles tree to run. |

> | watches.yaml | The Group, Version, and Kind of the resource to watch, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| watches.yaml | The Group, Version, and Kind of the resources to watch, and
```

to serve the [input directory][runner_input_dir] in ansible-runner's terms.
The mount path can *NOT* be changed to other paths, or else the Operator will
fail to communicate with ansible-runner.

### The Environment Variables

You can customize the behavior of the Ansible operator by specifying the
environment variables for the container. Please refer to the
[Ansible Documentation][ansible_env] for a list of environment variables that
can be used to tune the behavior of the Ansible engine.

In addition to the Ansible environment variables, Operator SDK also support
some special environment variables:

- `WATCH_NAMESPACE`: This is the namespace your operator will watch for resource
  changes, i.e. resource create, update or delete operations. In the scaffolded
  operator Deployment, this is set to the same namespace in which the
  operator is deployed. This variable can be set to one of the following types
  of values:

  - '': An empty string means that the operator will watch all namespaces.
    This is the default value if the `WATCH_NAMESPACE` environment variable is
    not set. It is especially useful for watching cluster-scoped resources.

>   - '&lt;foo&gt;': The operator will watch the namespace named '&lt;foo&gt;'.
>     This is the setting you will use if you are operating a namespaced resource
>     which is deployed into a namespace different from the one your operator is
>     running in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `foo`: The operator will watch the namespace named `foo`.
    This is the setting you will use if you are operating a namespaced resource
    which is deployed into a specific namespace.
```

>   - '&lt;foo&gt;,&lt;bar&gt;': The operator checks the value of the
>     environment variable and realizes that it is a comma-separated list. This
>     means the operator is about to watch more than one namespace, as listed in
>     the string value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `foo,bar`: The operator checks the value of the environment variable and
    realizes that it is a comma-separated list. This means the operator will
    watch for resources in each of the listed namespaces.
```

> - `POD_NAME` (**Deprecated**): The name of the operator Pod. This was used
>   for leader election among multiple operator instanes.
> 
> - `OPERATOR_NAME` (**Deprecated**): The name of the operator. Similar to the
>   `POD_NAME`,  this was used for leader election among operator instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

After creating a new operator project using

> ` operator-sdk init --plugins ansible.sdk.operatorframework.io/v1`,

Reviewer 2: Lets use a command with all the options. As is, this command wouldn't produce some of the files documented below.  
```
operator-sdk init --plugins=ansible.sdk.operatorframework.io/v1 \
      --domain=my.domain \
      --group=apps --version=v1alpha1 --kind=AppService \
      --generate-playbook \
      --generate-role
```

Reviewer: For less typing, you can use `operator-sdk init --plugins=ansible ...`

Author: Solved. Thx.

the project directory has many generated folders and files. The following
table describes a basic rundown of each generated file/directory.

| File/Folders   | Purpose |
| :---           | :---    |
| Dockerfile | The Dockerfile for building the container image for the operator. |
| Makefile | Contains make targets for building, publishing, deploying the
container image that wraps the operator binary, and make targets for
installing and uninstalling the CRD. |
| PROJECT | A YAML file containing meta information for the operator. |
| config/crd | The base CRD file and the kustomization settings. |

> | config/default | A sidecar container to be injected to the controller

Reviewer 2: The way I understood it, this directory is primarily the home of `kustomization.yaml`. I don't know why the auth proxy sidecar is in here too, AFAICT, that ought to live in `config/manager/`

manager for RBAC authorization against K8S API. | 
| config/manager | The controller manager deployment. |
| config/prometheus | The ServiceMonitor resource for monitoring the
operator. |
| config/rbac | The role, role binding for leader election and authentication
proxy. |
| config/sample | The sample resource created for the CRD. |
| config/testing | Some sample configurations for testing. |
| playbooks/ | A subdirectory for the playbook to run. |
| roles/ | A subdirectory for the roles tree to run. |
| watches.yaml | The Group, Version, and Kind of the resource to watch, and
the Ansible invocation method. New entries are added via the 'create api'
command. |
| requirements.yml | A YAML file containing the Ansible collections and role
dependencies to install during build. |
| molecule/ | The [Molecule](https://molecule.readthedocs.io/) scenarios
for end-to-end testing of your role and operator |

## The Deployment

The default Deployment manifest generated for the operator can be found in the
`config/manager/manager.yaml` file. By default, the Deployment is named as

> 'controller-manager' and it contains a single container named 'manager'. The

Reviewer 2: We probably ought to mention that this picks up a sidecar patch from config/default

Author: Done.

Deployment will create a single Pod.

For the container in the Pod, there are a few things to note. You will need

> to replace the image name and tag after you have built the Operator container 

Reviewer 2: This is no longer necessary. The makefile uses kustomize to patch the image, so the users should be able to just run `make deploy IMG=<IMG>` and it will "just work"

Author: Got it.

image and pushed it into a registry such as quay.io.

### The Volume Mount Path

The default EmptyDir volume mounted at `/tmp/ansible-operator/runner` is used
to serve the [input directory][runner_input_dir] in ansible-runner's terms.
The mount path can *NOT* be changed to other paths, or else the Operator will
fail to communicate with ansible-runner.

### The Environment Variables

You can customize the behavior of the Ansible operator by specifying the
environment variables for the container. Please refer to the
[Ansible Documentation][ansible_env] for a list of environment variables that
can be used to tune the behavior of the Ansible engine.

In addition to the Ansible environment variables, Operator SDK also support
some special environment variables:

> - `WATCH_NAMESPACE`: This is namespace your operator will watch for resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `WATCH_NAMESPACE`: This is the namespace your operator will watch for resource
```

Author: Done

>   changes, i.e. resource create, update or delete operations. In the operator
>   Deployment scaffolded, this is set to the same namespace in which the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  changes, i.e. resource create, update or delete operations. In the scaffolded 
  operator Deployment this is set to the same namespace in which the
```

Author: Done.
